https://www.canva.com/design/DAFE2GNggKU/PVn7Jgvav6LeSalJj4R3OQ/view?utm_content=DAFE2GNggKU&utm_campaign=designshare&utm_medium=link2&utm_source=sharebutton#18

watch 4-the case for typescript

ts does something called 'static checking': ts detects errors in our code without running it.

specifically, ts is a static type checker: ts does this error checking on the basis of the 'kinds of data' in our program, aka types! it does it before the code runs in the browser (it does it during development)

workflow we use in ts: we write our ts code, we fix any errors that ts identifies, and then the code is compiled to regular js that can run on the browser, or that node.js can work with. therefore, ts is there for development purposes.

watch 5-ts overview

installation for a specific project:
npm install typescript --save-dev

installation globally:
npm install -g typescript
(this way, you will have access to the 'tsc' command anywhere in your computer, not only in a specific project)

to compile ts on the browser (for example, when you are reading the docs and you want to experiement with some features, but you don't want to create a new project, etc.), go to https://www.typescriptlang.org/ and then, go to 'playground'.
in the 'playground', you can go to 'examples' if you are trying to understand any ts concept.
in the 'playground', you can also go to 'ts config' to change settings.

if you are using react, you can use the '.tsx' termination in the file name, so you can write jsx syntax with typescript

watch 13-compiling ts
watch 16-delayed initialization and implicit any

by default, ts gives the type 'any' to the parameters of a function, that's why you have to specify the types of the parameters.

watch 39-narrowing with union types

CONFIGURING THE TYPESCRIPT COMPILER (BASICALLY, A BUNCH OF SETTINGS):

watch 56-compiling to js

tsc --init
(in order to make the tsconfig.json file)

tsc -w <file-name> 
or: 
tsc --watch 
(watch mode: instead of compiling once, it will listen for changes and compile on save)

if you want to compile several files that are located in the same folder (and also any nested directories), you can just use 'tsc', and all the '.ts' files will be compiled to js (you can change this in the tsconfig.json file (you can configure tsconfig.json so ts will ingore certain files or look somwhere else, etc.)). the same applies if you want to use the watch mode for all files located in the same folder (and any nested directories): 'tsc -w'. otherwise, you can use 'tsc <file-name>' as usual, and it will compile only that file.

watch 59-the files compiler option
watch 60-include and exclude options
watch 61, 62, 63, 64-outdir option, target option, strict option, compiler options wrap up.

watch out! with json, you always need double quotes, not single quotes!

watch whole section 11: mini project: dom, type assertions and more